ci-operator/SECRETS.md, before:

# OKD CI Infrastructure Secrets

This document overviews the secrets that are available and the means by which
they should be deployed to the cluster.

## Access to secrets

We store secrets in bitwarden. To get access, you will need to ask in #forum-testplatform 
on the OpenShift Slack, or open a Jira ticket to the DPTP team.

## Secrets Listing

The following secrets exist in the `ci` Namespace and are used by the infra. If
a job is being written that should mount one of these, a CI administrator should
vet that interaction for correctness.

### Aggregate IaaS Secrets for use in Cluster Tests

A set of secrets exists that contain aggregated information for ease of mounting
into tests that are interacting with an IaaS hosted by a cloud. The following secrets
currently exist:

#### `cluster-secrets-aws`

|       Key        | Description |
| ---------------- | ----------- |
| `.awscred`       | Credentials for the AWS EC2 API. See the [upstream credentials doc](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-multiple-profiles.html). |
| `pull-secret`    | Credentials for pulling OpenShift images from Quay and for authenticating to telemetry. Retrieved from [try.openshift.com](https://try.openshift.com) under the ccoleman+openshift-ci-test@redhat.com account, and has the service account token from the `ocp` namespace added with `oc registry login --to=/tmp/pull-secret -z default -n ocp`.|
| `ssh-privatekey` | Private half of the SSH key, for connecting to AWS EC2 VMs. |
| `ssh-publickey`  | Public half of the SSH key, for connecting to AWS EC2 VMs. |

#### `cluster-secrets-gcp`

|        Key        | Description |
| ----------------- | ----------- |
| `gce.json`        | Credentials for the GCE API. See the [upstream credentials doc](https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/production). |
| `ops-mirror.pem`  | Credentials for pulling dependent RPMs necessary to install OpenShift. |
| `ssh-privatekey`  | Private half of the SSH key, for connecting to GCE VMs. |
| `ssh-publickey`   | Public half of the SSH key, for connecting to GCE VMs. |
| `telemeter-token` | Token to push telemetry data on CI clusters. |
| `pull-secret`    | Credentials for pulling OpenShift images from Quay and for authenticating to telemetry. Retrieved from [try.openshift.com](https://try.openshift.com) under the ccoleman+openshift-ci-test@redhat.com account, and has the service account token from the `ocp` namespace added with `oc registry login --to=/tmp/pull-secret -z default -n ocp`.|

#### `cluster-secrets-azure`

|       Key                         | Description |
| ----------------------------------| ----------- |
| `secret`                      | Credentials for the Azure API. See the [upstream credentials doc](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/rest/api/apimanagement/apimanagementrest/azure-api-management-rest-api-authentication). |
| `certs.yaml`                  | Certificate and key for downloading OpenShift RPMs from the ops mirrors |
| `ssh-privatekey`              | Private half of the SSH key, for connecting to Azure VMs when the VM image is built. |
| `.dockerconfigjson`           | Azure private registry pull secret |
| `logging-int.cert`            | Azure Geneva logging authentication certificate |
| `logging-int.key`             | Azure Geneva logging authentication key |
| `metrics-int.cert`            | Azure Geneva metrics authentication certificate |
| `metrics-int.key`             | Azure Geneva metrics authentication key |
| `system-docker-config.json`   | Root/node/system level docker config.json file, currently holding access registry.redhat.io |

#### `cluster-secrets-azure4`

|       Key                         | Description |
| ----------------------------------| ----------- |
| `osServicePrincipal.json`     | Credentials for the Azure API. This is a json file that contains fields described in [upstream credentials doc](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure-stack/operator/azure-stack-create-service-principals#create-a-service-principal-using-a-client-secret). |
| `pull-secret`    | Credentials for pulling OpenShift images from Quay and for authenticating to telemetry. Retrieved from [try.openshift.com](https://try.openshift.com) under the ccoleman+openshift-ci-test@redhat.com account, and has the service account token from the `ocp` namespace added with `oc registry login --to=/tmp/pull-secret -z default -n ocp`.|
| `ssh-privatekey` | Private half of the SSH key, for connecting to Azure VMs. |
| `ssh-publickey`  | Public half of the SSH key, for connecting to Azure VMs. |

#### `cluster-secrets-vsphere`

|       Key             | Description |
| ----------------------| ----------- |
| `secret.auto.tfvars`  | Secret part of terraform vars. See the [example tfvars](https://github.com/openshift/installer/blob/master/upi/vsphere/terraform.tfvars.example). |
| `.awscred`            | Credentials for the AWS EC2 API, used for Route53 access. See the [upstream credentials doc](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-multiple-profiles.html). |
| `pull-secret`         | Credentials for pulling OpenShift images from Quay and for authenticating to telemetry. Retrieved from [try.openshift.com](https://try.openshift.com) under the ccoleman+openshift-ci-test@redhat.com account, and has the service account token from the `ocp` namespace added with `oc registry login --to=/tmp/pull-secret -z default -n ocp`.|
| `ssh-privatekey`      | Private half of the SSH key, for connecting to VSphere VMs. |
| `ssh-publickey`       | Public half of the SSH key, for connecting to VSphere VMs. |

#### `cluster-secrets-openstack`

|        Key        | Description |
| ----------------- | ----------- |
| `clouds.yaml`     | Credentials for the openstack cloud. See the [Openstack docs](https://docs.openstack.org/python-openstackclient/pike/configuration/index.html). |
| `ssh-privatekey`   | Private half of the SSH key, for connecting to OpenStack Nova VMs. |
| `ssh-publickey`   | Public half of the SSH key, for connecting to OpenStack Nova VMs. |
| `pull-secret`    | Credentials for pulling OpenShift images from Quay and for authenticating to telemetry. Retrieved from [try.openshift.com](https://try.openshift.com) under the ccoleman+openshift-ci-test@redhat.com account, and has the service account token from the `ocp` namespace added with `oc registry login --to=/tmp/pull-secret -z default -n ocp`.|

#### `cluster-secrets-metal`

|       Key        | Description |
| -----------------| ----------- |
| `.awscred`       | Credentials for the AWS EC2 API, used for Route53 access. See the [upstream credentials doc](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-multiple-profiles.html). |
| `.packetcred`    | Credentials for the Packet.net API, used for creating bare-metal servers. See the [upstream credentials doc](https://www.packet.com/developers/api/). |
| `pull-secret`    | Credentials for pulling OpenShift images from Quay and for authenticating to telemetry. Retrieved from [try.openshift.com](https://try.openshift.com) under the ccoleman+openshift-ci-test@redhat.com account, and has the service account token from the `ocp` namespace added with `oc registry login --to=/tmp/pull-secret -z default -n ocp`.|
| `ssh-privatekey` | Private half of the SSH key, for connecting to VMs. |
| `ssh-publickey`  | Public half of the SSH key, for connecting to VMs. |

### GCE ServiceAccount Credentials

The following serviceaccounts have their credentials stored in secrets on the
cluster:

 - `aos-pubsub-subscriber`
 - `aos-serviceaccount`
 - `ci-vm-operator`
 - `gcs-publisher`
 - `jenkins-ci-provisioner`

For each serviceaccount, a secret named `gce-sa-credentials-${sa_name}` holds
the following fields:

|        Key         | Description |
| ------------------ | ----------- |
| `credentials.json` | Credentials for the GCE API. See the [upstream credentials doc](https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/production). |
| `ssh-privatekey`   | [OPTIONAL] Private half of the SSH key, for connecting to GCE VMs. |
| `ssh-publickey`    | [OPTIONAL] Public half of the SSH key, for connecting to GCE VMs. |

### GitHub Credentials

#### User Credentials

The following GitHub users have their credentials stored in secrets on the
cluster:

 - @openshift-bot
 - @openshift-build-robot
 - @openshift-cherrypick-robot
 - @openshift-ci-robot
 - @openshift-merge-robot
 - @openshift-publish-robot

For each user, a secret named `github-credentials-${username}` holds the
following fields:

|       Key        | Description |
| ---------------- | ----------- |
| `oauth`          | OAuth2 token for the GitHub API. See the [upstream credentials doc](https://developer.github.com/v3/#oauth2-token-sent-in-a-header). |
| `ssh-privatekey` | [OPTIONAL] Private half of the SSH key, for cloning over SSH. |

#### Miscellaneous GitHub Secrets

 - The `github-app-credentials` secret holds the client configuration for the Deck OAuth application in the `config.json` key.
 - The `github-webhook-credentials` secret holds the HMAC encryption secret for GitHub webhook delivery to `hook` in the `hmac` key.
 - The `github-deploymentconfig-trigger` secret holds the unique URL prefix for `DeploymentConfig` triggers from GitHub in the `WebHookSecretKey` key.

### Container Image Registry Credentials

The following registries have their credentials stored in secrets on the cluster:

 - docker.io
 - quay.io

For each, a `registry-pull-credentials-${registry_url}` secret holds the pull
credentials in the `config.json` key and a `registry-push-credentials-${registry_url}`
secret holds push credentials also in a `config.json` key.

#### Push Credentials for Image Mirroring Jobs

Team-specific credentials are used by [image mirroring jobs](../core-services/quay-mirroring/README.md)
to push images to team orgs on Quay. In Bitwarden, these are called `quay.io/${THING}`
and contain the credentials JSON in the `Push Credentials` field. They are
synced to a corresponding `registry-push-credentials-quay.io-${THING}` secret,
where the JSON is also placed in the `config.json` key. The `${THING}` part
should identify the owning team and should correspond to a subdirectory of [core-services/quay-mirroring](../core-services/quay-mirroring).

### Jenkins Credentials

The following Jenkins masters have their credentials stored in secrets on the
cluster:

 - openshift-ci-robot@ci.dev.openshift.redhat.com
 - openshift-ci-robot@ci.openshift.redhat.com
 - katabuilder@kata-jenkins-ci.westus2.cloudapp.azure.com

For each master, the `jenkins-credentials-${master_url}` secret holds the
password for the Jenkins user in the `password` key. For the `ci.dev` master,
a client cert, key and CA cert are also present for client authentication.


### Slack Bot Credentials

The following Slack bots have their Slack API tokens for the CoreOS Slack organization
stored on the cluster

 - cluster-bot as `ci-chat-bot-slack-token`

This token is granted access to talk to the Slack API for automation purposes.

## Secret Regeneration

In order to regenerate the secrets in the case of an emergency, a CI admin can
recreate all of the above secrets by running:

```
$ BW_SESSION="$( bw login username@company.com password --raw )" ci-operator/populate-secrets-from-bitwarden.sh
```

This requires the appropriate access in BitWarden and will create a new session
that can be closed with:

```
$ bw logout
```

## Secret Drift Detection

Before using the above script to write new secrets to the infrastructure's
namespace, check that the secrets you are about to populate match those that
are currently in use. This should always be the case unless someone has edited
secrets manually and not committed the changes to the script or to BitWarden.

To check for drift, use `oc get --export` and `diff`:

```
$ oc get secrets --selector=ci.openshift.io/managed=true --export -o yaml -n ci > prod.yaml
$ oc get secrets --selector=ci.openshift.io/managed=true --export -o yaml -n $TEST_NS > proposed.yaml
$ diff prod.yaml proposed.yaml
```

# Self-Managed Secrets

In order to provide custom secrets to jobs without putting the secret management
into the hands of the Developer Productivity (Test Platform) team, it is possible
to create the secrets in the cluster and have them automatically mirrored to be
available for jobs. See the [doc](../core-services/secret-mirroring/README.md#self-managed-secrets)
for details and instructions.

Commit message:

Update secret management document
Signed-off-by: Steve Kuznetsov <skuznets@redhat.com>

ci-operator/SECRETS.md, after:

# OKD CI Infrastructure Secrets

This document overviews the secrets that are available and the means by which
they should be deployed to the cluster.

## Access to secrets

We store secrets in a private secret storage system. To add new secrets to this storage
please reach out to `#forum-testplatform` on Slack and be prepared to encrypt your data
with our GPG keys.

## Secrets Listing

The following secrets exist in the `ci` Namespace and are used by the infra. If
a job is being written that should mount one of these, a CI administrator should
vet that interaction for correctness.

### Aggregate IaaS Secrets for use in Cluster Tests

A set of secrets exists that contain aggregated information for ease of mounting
into tests that are interacting with an IaaS hosted by a cloud. The following secrets
currently exist:

#### `cluster-secrets-aws`

|       Key        | Description |
| ---------------- | ----------- |
| `.awscred`       | Credentials for the AWS EC2 API. See the [upstream credentials doc](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-multiple-profiles.html). |
| `pull-secret`    | Credentials for pulling OpenShift images from Quay and for authenticating to telemetry. Retrieved from [try.openshift.com](https://try.openshift.com) under the ccoleman+openshift-ci-test@redhat.com account, and has the service account token from the `ocp` namespace added with `oc registry login --to=/tmp/pull-secret -z default -n ocp`.|
| `ssh-privatekey` | Private half of the SSH key, for connecting to AWS EC2 VMs. |
| `ssh-publickey`  | Public half of the SSH key, for connecting to AWS EC2 VMs. |

#### `cluster-secrets-gcp`

|        Key        | Description |
| ----------------- | ----------- |
| `gce.json`        | Credentials for the GCE API. See the [upstream credentials doc](https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/production). |
| `ops-mirror.pem`  | Credentials for pulling dependent RPMs necessary to install OpenShift. |
| `ssh-privatekey`  | Private half of the SSH key, for connecting to GCE VMs. |
| `ssh-publickey`   | Public half of the SSH key, for connecting to GCE VMs. |
| `telemeter-token` | Token to push telemetry data on CI clusters. |
| `pull-secret`    | Credentials for pulling OpenShift images from Quay and for authenticating to telemetry. Retrieved from [try.openshift.com](https://try.openshift.com) under the ccoleman+openshift-ci-test@redhat.com account, and has the service account token from the `ocp` namespace added with `oc registry login --to=/tmp/pull-secret -z default -n ocp`.|

#### `cluster-secrets-azure`

|       Key                         | Description |
| ----------------------------------| ----------- |
| `secret`                      | Credentials for the Azure API. See the [upstream credentials doc](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/rest/api/apimanagement/apimanagementrest/azure-api-management-rest-api-authentication). |
| `certs.yaml`                  | Certificate and key for downloading OpenShift RPMs from the ops mirrors |
| `ssh-privatekey`              | Private half of the SSH key, for connecting to Azure VMs when the VM image is built. |
| `.dockerconfigjson`           | Azure private registry pull secret |
| `logging-int.cert`            | Azure Geneva logging authentication certificate |
| `logging-int.key`             | Azure Geneva logging authentication key |
| `metrics-int.cert`            | Azure Geneva metrics authentication certificate |
| `metrics-int.key`             | Azure Geneva metrics authentication key |
| `system-docker-config.json`   | Root/node/system level docker config.json file, currently holding access registry.redhat.io |

#### `cluster-secrets-azure4`

|       Key                         | Description |
| ----------------------------------| ----------- |
| `osServicePrincipal.json`     | Credentials for the Azure API. This is a json file that contains fields described in [upstream credentials doc](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure-stack/operator/azure-stack-create-service-principals#create-a-service-principal-using-a-client-secret). |
| `pull-secret`    | Credentials for pulling OpenShift images from Quay and for authenticating to telemetry. Retrieved from [try.openshift.com](https://try.openshift.com) under the ccoleman+openshift-ci-test@redhat.com account, and has the service account token from the `ocp` namespace added with `oc registry login --to=/tmp/pull-secret -z default -n ocp`.|
| `ssh-privatekey` | Private half of the SSH key, for connecting to Azure VMs. |
| `ssh-publickey`  | Public half of the SSH key, for connecting to Azure VMs. |

#### `cluster-secrets-vsphere`

|       Key             | Description |
| ----------------------| ----------- |
| `secret.auto.tfvars`  | Secret part of terraform vars. See the [example tfvars](https://github.com/openshift/installer/blob/master/upi/vsphere/terraform.tfvars.example). |
| `.awscred`            | Credentials for the AWS EC2 API, used for Route53 access. See the [upstream credentials doc](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-multiple-profiles.html). |
| `pull-secret`         | Credentials for pulling OpenShift images from Quay and for authenticating to telemetry. Retrieved from [try.openshift.com](https://try.openshift.com) under the ccoleman+openshift-ci-test@redhat.com account, and has the service account token from the `ocp` namespace added with `oc registry login --to=/tmp/pull-secret -z default -n ocp`.|
| `ssh-privatekey`      | Private half of the SSH key, for connecting to VSphere VMs. |
| `ssh-publickey`       | Public half of the SSH key, for connecting to VSphere VMs. |

#### `cluster-secrets-openstack`

|        Key        | Description |
| ----------------- | ----------- |
| `clouds.yaml`     | Credentials for the openstack cloud. See the [Openstack docs](https://docs.openstack.org/python-openstackclient/pike/configuration/index.html). |
| `ssh-privatekey`   | Private half of the SSH key, for connecting to OpenStack Nova VMs. |
| `ssh-publickey`   | Public half of the SSH key, for connecting to OpenStack Nova VMs. |
| `pull-secret`    | Credentials for pulling OpenShift images from Quay and for authenticating to telemetry. Retrieved from [try.openshift.com](https://try.openshift.com) under the ccoleman+openshift-ci-test@redhat.com account, and has the service account token from the `ocp` namespace added with `oc registry login --to=/tmp/pull-secret -z default -n ocp`.|

#### `cluster-secrets-metal`

|       Key        | Description |
| -----------------| ----------- |
| `.awscred`       | Credentials for the AWS EC2 API, used for Route53 access. See the [upstream credentials doc](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-multiple-profiles.html). |
| `.packetcred`    | Credentials for the Packet.net API, used for creating bare-metal servers. See the [upstream credentials doc](https://www.packet.com/developers/api/). |
| `pull-secret`    | Credentials for pulling OpenShift images from Quay and for authenticating to telemetry. Retrieved from [try.openshift.com](https://try.openshift.com) under the ccoleman+openshift-ci-test@redhat.com account, and has the service account token from the `ocp` namespace added with `oc registry login --to=/tmp/pull-secret -z default -n ocp`.|
| `ssh-privatekey` | Private half of the SSH key, for connecting to VMs. |
| `ssh-publickey`  | Public half of the SSH key, for connecting to VMs. |

### GCE ServiceAccount Credentials

The following serviceaccounts have their credentials stored in secrets on the
cluster:

 - `aos-pubsub-subscriber`
 - `aos-serviceaccount`
 - `ci-vm-operator`
 - `gcs-publisher`
 - `jenkins-ci-provisioner`

For each serviceaccount, a secret named `gce-sa-credentials-${sa_name}` holds
the following fields:

|        Key         | Description |
| ------------------ | ----------- |
| `credentials.json` | Credentials for the GCE API. See the [upstream credentials doc](https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/production). |
| `ssh-privatekey`   | [OPTIONAL] Private half of the SSH key, for connecting to GCE VMs. |
| `ssh-publickey`    | [OPTIONAL] Public half of the SSH key, for connecting to GCE VMs. |

### GitHub Credentials

#### User Credentials

The following GitHub users have their credentials stored in secrets on the
cluster:

 - @openshift-bot
 - @openshift-build-robot
 - @openshift-cherrypick-robot
 - @openshift-ci-robot
 - @openshift-merge-robot
 - @openshift-publish-robot

For each user, a secret named `github-credentials-${username}` holds the
following fields:

|       Key        | Description |
| ---------------- | ----------- |
| `oauth`          | OAuth2 token for the GitHub API. See the [upstream credentials doc](https://developer.github.com/v3/#oauth2-token-sent-in-a-header). |
| `ssh-privatekey` | [OPTIONAL] Private half of the SSH key, for cloning over SSH. |

#### Miscellaneous GitHub Secrets

 - The `github-app-credentials` secret holds the client configuration for the Deck OAuth application in the `config.json` key.
 - The `github-webhook-credentials` secret holds the HMAC encryption secret for GitHub webhook delivery to `hook` in the `hmac` key.
 - The `github-deploymentconfig-trigger` secret holds the unique URL prefix for `DeploymentConfig` triggers from GitHub in the `WebHookSecretKey` key.

### Container Image Registry Credentials

The following registries have their credentials stored in secrets on the cluster:

 - docker.io
 - quay.io

For each, a `registry-pull-credentials-${registry_url}` secret holds the pull
credentials in the `config.json` key and a `registry-push-credentials-${registry_url}`
secret holds push credentials also in a `config.json` key.

#### Push Credentials for Image Mirroring Jobs

Team-specific credentials are used by [image mirroring jobs](../core-services/quay-mirroring/README.md)
to push images to team orgs on Quay. In Bitwarden, these are called `quay.io/${THING}`
and contain the credentials JSON in the `Push Credentials` field. They are
synced to a corresponding `registry-push-credentials-quay.io-${THING}` secret,
where the JSON is also placed in the `config.json` key. The `${THING}` part
should identify the owning team and should correspond to a subdirectory of [core-services/quay-mirroring](../core-services/quay-mirroring).

### Jenkins Credentials

The following Jenkins masters have their credentials stored in secrets on the
cluster:

 - openshift-ci-robot@ci.dev.openshift.redhat.com
 - openshift-ci-robot@ci.openshift.redhat.com
 - katabuilder@kata-jenkins-ci.westus2.cloudapp.azure.com

For each master, the `jenkins-credentials-${master_url}` secret holds the
password for the Jenkins user in the `password` key. For the `ci.dev` master,
a client cert, key and CA cert are also present for client authentication.


### Slack Bot Credentials

The following Slack bots have their Slack API tokens for the CoreOS Slack organization
stored on the cluster

 - cluster-bot as `ci-chat-bot-slack-token`

This token is granted access to talk to the Slack API for automation purposes.

## Secret Regeneration

In order to regenerate the secrets in the case of an emergency, a CI admin can
recreate all of the above secrets by running:

```
$ BW_SESSION="$( bw login username@company.com password --raw )" ci-operator/populate-secrets-from-bitwarden.sh
```

This requires the appropriate access in BitWarden and will create a new session
that can be closed with:

```
$ bw logout
```

## Secret Drift Detection

Before using the above script to write new secrets to the infrastructure's
namespace, check that the secrets you are about to populate match those that
are currently in use. This should always be the case unless someone has edited
secrets manually and not committed the changes to the script or to BitWarden.

To check for drift, use `oc get --export` and `diff`:

```
$ oc get secrets --selector=ci.openshift.io/managed=true --export -o yaml -n ci > prod.yaml
$ oc get secrets --selector=ci.openshift.io/managed=true --export -o yaml -n $TEST_NS > proposed.yaml
$ diff prod.yaml proposed.yaml
```

# Self-Managed Secrets

In order to provide custom secrets to jobs without putting the secret management
into the hands of the Developer Productivity (Test Platform) team, it is possible
to create the secrets in the cluster and have them automatically mirrored to be
available for jobs. See the [doc](../core-services/secret-mirroring/README.md#self-managed-secrets)
for details and instructions.
